Let's talk about shopping and saving money,
and there's a reason why I'm wearing this jacket.
I'll get to that in a minute or two.
Shopping expense tip number one,
ask for a discount after you buy it.
Keep all your receipts, and if you notice
that an item goes on sale after you buy it,
meaning within a month or so,
I want you to literally bring that receipt to the store
and ask for the same discounts.
And this actually works most of the time with larger stores,
even with clothes, even if you take the tag off as well.
And I learned this trick from my wife Christine.
She worked in retail for years when she was in university.
You can do this.
Just bring the receipt in, especially for the bigger stores.
Shopping expense tip number two, bargaining tip.
Please, always, always, always bargain if you can
and ask for a discount at checkout,
unless it's a very large retail chain like a Wal-Mart.
For the smaller companies I want you to bargain
and be a pain in the neck because if you don't,
you're actually hurting your family in the long run,
just given the savings and compound interest.
Just ask for a discount, ask for a discount.
And when you buy something and you're paying cash,
a lot of the times the people you're paying
aren't gonna claim that, which is illegal,
but they're not gonna pay the government the tax.
They're gonna pocket the tax they charged you.
And you know this is happening
if you buy something at a store and you pay cash,
and they don't close the cash register.
Anyway, a little of topic there,
but I want you to be a pain
in the neck please and try to bargain.
What I do actually if I'm gonna buy a larger number
of items is I will tell the manager in the store
that I'm gonna buy a large number of items,
and I would like a discount
at the end of the product selection process.
And I did this recently when I bought a bike for my son,
as I not only bought a bike for him,
but also a helmet and a kickstand, a lock,
and other protective stuff for my other kids.
And the high margin products are the smaller items
like lights or helmets or whatever,
and they cut the prices on those by up to 50%.
Just ask.
Worst case they can say no.
Shopping expense tip number three,
the best online coupon tip ever.
I feel like a used car salesman.
But wait, there's more.
Okay, always search for coupon codes online
before you check out and pay for your items.
Although I hate actually installing software
in my browser and downloading plugins,
I actually use a coupon plugin on one of the browsers I use,
and the plugin that I use and love is called Honey,
and I've saved hundreds of dollars annually already
using this Honey plugin.
For example, here you can see that I can save
up to 10% shopping on Intuit website.
And Honey is a plugin that I use on Chrome,
and I haven't found any virus issues with it yet,
and I've researched it thoroughly
before installing and using it.
And here you can see that the reviews are amazing.
And Time magazine called it free money.
And so, here's another example.
As of my recording here today,
you can see that you can save a lot at Macy's.
Actually, you can save 30% because this plugin here, Honey.
And what happens is when you go to many websites,
right when you're checking out,
this Honey plugin pops up and says enter this code here
to save money, or it can tell you
that there's a cheaper way to buy this product.
I absolutely love it.
Shopping expense tip number four, cash is king tip.
Try leaving your credit cards at home
and carry some cash instead
as you'll end up buying less stuff,
and it's a hassle to walk to the bank machine anyway.
Actually, carry cash but not large amounts,
and if you carry this much here,
you might end up overspending.
I gotta do this.
This is something I've always wanted to do.
It says there $100,000,000.
You'll end up overspending if you have it.
Hi, I'm dope.
I'm trying to act cool like younger people.
I've always wanted to do that, okay.
Anyway, sorry. (laughs)
Shopping expense tip number five, clothes hesitation tip.
If you're shopping for clothes,
and you're considering buying a clothing item,
if you hesitate for even half a second
and think will I wear this, then don't buy it.
Don't buy it because you'll regret wasting your money
later when the item just collects dust in your closet.
Shopping expense tip number six,
deep discount stores are awesome tip.
Shop at the Dollar Store or Goodwill
and take your kids with you too.
And only buy school supplies from the Dollar Store
if it's available where you live or a similar type store
as the products in the store are all a buck each,
and they're just as good,
and you'll actually teach your kids
a valuable lesson about money here as well.
And I actually arrived to a meeting early recently
as I always do.
I always arrive way too early.
And the meeting was beside a Goodwill store,
so I walked into the store,
and I bought this Calvin Klein jacket here.
See, Calvin Klein slim fit.
I bought this for 10 bucks.
Isn't that great?
It's $10.
I mean, it smells a bit like weed.
Just kidding, sort of.
Dammit, now I got the munchies.
Sorry, okay, so I'm actually gonna take my jacket
off now 'cause it's kind of hot with all these lights here.
Okay, thank you Goodwill.
All right, I'll put this down here.
Okay, shopping expense tip number seven,
don't pay full price for expensive clothes tip.
You don't need to wear those brands.
If you feel like you have to buy that item,
then ask the sales rep in the store
when that item will go on sale.
And if the sales rep says they don't know,
then it will definitely be on sale soon or eventually.
And you can also search the web to see
when these retail companies have their annual sales.
So shopping tip expense number eight,
generics are cheaper tip.
Buy generic drugs if your doctor approves
as the ingredients are the same.
Do this with mouthwash as well
as other personal items as well.
I know we talked about drugs before.
Let me talk about mouthwash for a second here.
I buy the generic version of Scope mouthwash
as the ingredients are identical anyway,
and you save a fortune in the long run.
And just remember to compare the ingredients though
and make sure the ingredients are listed
in the same order on both products
because most countries have a law.
They mandate that the larger ingredients
in a product have to be listed first,
and so this video here is a video I took
when I was shopping recently at Walgreens,
and I compared the prices of these items.
Shopping expense tip number nine,
get discount cards at a discount tip.
So try to buy discount cards for stores
that you're planning on spending a lot of money at.
Do the same thing for restaurant discount cards
or theme park discount cards, or movie discount cards.
My wife Christine's great at doing that.
She's amazing.
I learned so much from her.
You can actually buy these discount cards
at Costco or other large stores.
And buy the discount cards deeply discounted on Ebay.
And so, make sure though that the person on Ebay
that you're buying from has a good rating though,
and here's an example.
Here's an example on Ebay of a $10 gift iTunes gift card
that is selling for about $9 with free shipping.
Of course, make sure the person selling the item
has great feedback rating.
I had to stress that again.
And I actually buy my gym memberships at Costco,
and Christine bought our Disneyland tickets
for our kids at Costco, and we saved a lot of money.
And here's what you can do.
You keep the receipts because you can return
these gift cards if you don't use them.
Shopping expense tip number 10, impulse purchasing tip.
Never buy expensive products as impulse purchases,
meaning at the last minute you go into a store.
I wasn't planning on buying that.
Oh, I kind of want that big speaker set.
I gotta buy it, whatever.
Wait seven days first and then reconsider.
It's like a cool-off period.
And if you still wanna make that purchase,
then you'll likely find a better deal online,
or you won't make the purchase at all.
Next up, tip number 11.
We've got the in-store price check tip.
Before buying anything in a store
that is not a food-based product,
just check on your phone for a cheaper price on Amazon,
Wal-Mart, or other places online.
And if you find it cheaper on the website on your phone,
then ask for a discount in the store.
Retail's a tough business, and there's many apps
that you can use for comparison shopping.
And all you do actually is you take your phone.
You take your phone here,
and then you just kind of scan the image
with the camera or the barcode,
and your phone will tell you if it's cheaper somewhere else.
Shopping expense tip number 12, never buy new releases tip.
Don't buy products when they first come out
like video games or hardcover books,
as they'll be 50% off or much cheaper within six months.
And if you can't wait and you have to pay 60 bucks
for a new video game, then finish it quickly
and then sell it on Ebay for 40 bucks a month or two later.
And don't wait to sell it though.
Don't wait too long as these items depreciate very quickly.
And you can even just rent the game for a weekend,
and then rent it again later because your saved progress
is already stored on your game console.
Shopping expense tip number 13, one-click is evil tip.
If you have the option to do so,
please turn off one-click shopping
on Amazon or other websites,
meaning buying something immediately by pressing buttons
so you bypass the whole checkout process.
Also, and this one's kind of a pain in the neck,
but try to not save your credit cards online
as it'll actually slow you down from overshopping
as you have to pull out your credit card
and punch in all those crazy numbers.
Shopping expense tip number 14, points add up tip.
If you have to use a credit card,
use one that's got award points, especially for flights.
And a large portion of all of our family's,
my family's annual airplane tickets
to visit my family in Canada are paid for
using points on our credit card.
Shopping expense tip number 15,
shop when nobody else does tip.
Buy when nobody else is buying.
You know, like buying wrapping paper
right after the holidays.
And do the same thing with all products that don't expire.
Shopping expense tip number 16,
retail therapy is not therapeutic.
Retail therapy doesn't work, meaning going shopping
for items you don't need like clothes
when you're not in the best of moods.
And we've all been there.
I certainly have, and you know what I mean.
So go to the gym instead and just lift some weights
as the serotonin or endorphins released in your brain
will make you feel much better,
and it's way cheaper as well, win-win.